##How does the framework interact with the various codepools?

Magento loads 4 codepools, starting with local, then community, then core and finally lib within app/Mage.php which is called in index.php:

    $paths = array();
    $paths[] = BP . DS . 'app' . DS . 'code' . DS . 'local';
    $paths[] = BP . DS . 'app' . DS . 'code' . DS . 'community';
    $paths[] = BP . DS . 'app' . DS . 'code' . DS . 'core';
    $paths[] = BP . DS . 'lib';
    $appPath = implode(PS, $paths);
    set_include_path($appPath . PS . Mage::registry('original_include_path'));
    include_once "Mage/Core/functions.php";
    include_once "Varien/Autoload.php";


##What constitutes a namespace and a module?

A namespace is a folder that lies in one of the codebase folders that holds modules; it is usually the vendor name. A module is a package of functionality that lies within a namespace.

##What does the structure of a complete theme look like?

A complete theme will include XML layout information and phtml template files within app/design/theme/template/layout and template respectively. The templates are accompanied by front end resources in the corresponding theme/template within the skin folder.

## What is the order of codepools loaded?

- local
- community
- core

## Name all locations an Autoloader will search for a file

1. app/code/local/
2. app/code/community/
3. app/code/core/
4. lib/


## Name the class of the Autoloader

Varien_Autoload

Found: lib/Varien/Autoload.php

## How do you register a parent theme?

In app/design/frontend/{{package}}/{{theme}}/etc/theme.xml

    <?xml version="1.0"?>
    <theme>
        <parent>rwd/default</parent>
    </theme>

## Where can JavaScript files be located?

1. lib/
2. skin/{{area}}/{{package}}/{{theme}}/js/

## How do you register JavaScript in your theme?

Class: Mage_Page_Block_Html_Head

    <reference name="head">

      <action method="addItem">
        <type>skin_js</type>
        <url>js/init.js</url>
      </action>

      <action method="addItem">
        <type>js</type>
        <url>package/lib.js</url>
      </action>

      <action method="addJsIe">
        <url>js/ie.js</url>
      </action>

      <action method="addJs">
        <url>package/lib.js</url>
      </action>

    </reference>

## How do you resolve a Configuration conflict?

Depend one module on the other.

    <config>
      <modules>
        <Module_Two>
          <active>true</active>
          <codePool>community</codePool>
          <depends><Module_One/></depends>
        </Module_Two>
      </modules>
    </config>

*depends make the Module_Two load before Module_One*


## How do you resolve a Rewrite conflict?

Remove one rewrite and extend the second rewrite on the first.
Or you could use a depends node which will load one of rewrites before the other and then make changes to that class.

