# Explain how Magento loads and manipulates configuration information

We are going to take a look at the 'init' method inside the class 'Mage_Core_Model_Config' in order to understand how Magento loads configuration information.

How does Magento get from it's starting point, 'index.php' to 'Mage_Core_Model_Config'? Inside of 'index.php', 'Mage.php' is called. Inside of 'Mage.php' an instance of the class 'Mage_Core_Model_App' is instantiated.

Take a peak inside 'Mage_Core_Model_App' and the line '$this->_config = Mage::getConfig();' is the line that calls 'Mage_Core_Model_Config'.

The 'init()' method of 'Mage_Core_Model_App' flows as follow :-

   
    public function init($options=array())
    {
        // lets skip cache init and non-standard options stuff
 
        $this->loadBase();
 
        $cacheLoad = $this->loadModulesCache();
        if ($cacheLoad) {
            return $this;
        }
        $this->loadModules();
        $this->loadDb();
        $this->saveCache();
        return $this;
    }
    
    
## $this->loadBase();

The 'loadBase()' function will define an absolute path to the app/etc directory. Then, all .xml files are retrieved from this folder and merged into one single configuration object.
The function also does a special check for the 'local.xml' file and sets a 'isLocalConfigLoaded' flag to true if it's loaded. Here is the entire 'loadBase()' function:

    public function loadBase()
    {
        $etcDir = $this->getOptions()->getEtcDir();
        $files = glob($etcDir.DS.'*.xml');
        $this->loadFile(current($files));
        while ($file = next($files)) {
            $merge = clone $this->_prototype;
            $merge->loadFile($file);
            $this->extend($merge);
        }
        if (in_array($etcDir.DS.'local.xml', $files)) {
            $this->_isLocalConfigLoaded = true;
        }
        return $this;
    }

## Load from cache
After the 'loadBase()' method is done, a check is done. If the configuration cache is enabled and contains the desired information, we load the entire config. In doing so we replace the config that has JUST been loaded in the above method with the config loaded from the cache (Mage_Core_Model_Config::loadCache()).

## $this->loadModules();
Moving on to the 'loadModules' function, this function will scan the 'app/etc/modules' directory and collect a list of paths to all module .xml files in the system. An associative array of formed with three keys; "base", "mage" and "custom".
The "base" key is reserved for the 'Mage_All.xml' file. The "mage" key is used for all of the core Magento modules in the app/code/core codepool. Finally, the "custom" key is used for all other modules. This effectively outlines the order these modules are loaded into the system, with Mage_All being first.

'loadModules' itself calls a method '_loadDeclaredModules' where a lot of essential sorting of configuration files takes place. A new array and sorted based on a module's '<depends>' clause, it's '<active>' flag and the module name. Module's are arranged based on their dependencies on one another. 

With all of that out of the way, the 'loadModules()' function continues. 


    public function loadModules()
    {
        Varien_Profiler::start('config/load-modules');
        $this->_loadDeclaredModules();

        $resourceConfig = sprintf('config.%s.xml', $this->_getResourceConnectionModel('core'));
        $this->loadModulesConfiguration(array('config.xml',$resourceConfig), $this);

        /**
         * Prevent local.xml directives overwriting
         */
        $mergeConfig = clone $this->_prototype;
        $this->_isLocalConfigLoaded = $mergeConfig->loadFile($this->getOptions()->getEtcDir().DS.'local.xml');
        if ($this->_isLocalConfigLoaded) {
            $this->extend($mergeConfig);
        }

        $this->applyExtends();
        Varien_Profiler::stop('config/load-modules');
        return $this;
    }
    
    
## $this->loadDb();   


## $this->saveCache();
 