## 1.  Which methods exist to access the table of a resource model?

A number of functions for accessing a table :-

    Mage::getModel('core/resource')->getTable()
    Mage::getModel('core/resource')->getTableName('colin_database/results');
    Mage::getModel('core/resource')->getMainTable('colin_database/results');

## 2. Which methods exist to create joins between tables on collections and on select instances?

- join()
- joinInner()
- joinLeft()
- joinRight()
- joinFull()
- joinCross()
- joinNatural()

## 3. How does Magento support different RDBMSs?
(Relationship Database Managaement Systems)
Database connections are defined in local.xml.
There is a 'type' node inside app/etc/local.xml, this can be altered from 'pdo_mysql' to 'mysql', for example

    <global>
      <resources>
        <wordpress_db>
            <connection>
                <host><![CDATA[127.0.0.1]]></host>
                <username><![CDATA[root]]></username>
                <password><![CDATA[root]]></password>
                <dbname><![CDATA[wp_exam]]></dbname>
                <initStatements><![CDATA[SET NAMES utf8]]></initStatements>
                <model><![CDATA[mysql4]]></model>
                <type><![CDATA[pdo_mysql]]></type>
                <active>1</active>
                <persistent>0</persistent>
            </connection>
        </wordpress_db>
        <wordpress_read>
            <connection>
                <use>wordpress_db</use>
            </connection>
        </wordpress_read>
        <wordpress_write>
            <connection>
                <use>wordpress_db</use>
            </connection>
        </wordpress_write>
      </resources>
    <global>

    $resource = Mage::getModel('core/resource')->getConnection('wordpress_read');

Magento uses adapters and specialist query syntax, meaning ideally you should never have to write in a particular database's syntax.

## 4. How do table name lookups work, and what is the purpose of making table names configurable?

A table name is defined in a module's config XML file under the 'entities' node. You should always use the

    Mage::getModel('core/resource')->getTableName('colin_database/results');

method to work with tables incase there are table prefixes or some other modifications.


## 5. Which events are fired automatically during CRUD operations?

- model_load_before
- model_load_after
- mode_save_before
- model_save_after
- model_delete_before
- model_delete_after
- model_delete_commit_after

## 6. How does Magento figure out if a save() call needs to create an INSERT or an UPDATE query?

Checks for *$object->getId()* . If the object has an ID then Magento will update, otherwise it inserts.

## 7. How many ways exist to specify filters on a flat table collection?
Primarily, these two methods :

- $model->getCollection()->addFieldToFilter()
- $model->getCollection()->getSelect()->where()

Though a lot more are listed here too:
http://vncosy.com/which-methods-exist-to-access-the-table-of-a-resource-model/

## 8. Which methods exist to influence the ordering of the result set for flat table collections?
Primarily, these two methods :

- $model->getCollection()->setOrder($field, $dir)
- $model->getCollection()->getSelect()->order("$query")

Though a lot more are listed here too:
http://vncosy.com/which-methods-exist-to-access-the-table-of-a-resource-model/

## 9.Why and how does Magento differentiate between setup, read, and write database resources?

This is because Magento supports master/slave configurations for databases.
You can set a master database that will be used for writing (and setup maybe) and a slave database to read data from.

Read database method is retrieved in this way...

$read = Mage::getSingleton('core/resource')->getConnection('core_read');

and is used for getting data.

Write database is retrieved in this way...

$write = Mage::getSingleton('core/resource')->getConnection('core_write');

and is used for inserting, updating, deleting.

There is a difference for security.

https://magento.stackexchange.com/questions/7323/why-and-how-does-magento-differentiate-between-setup-read-and-write-database-r