# Themes

## How you can use themes to customize core functionality?

You can change the layout, skin and blocks of the website. So each theme can have it's own JavaScript, CSS etc.

## How can you implement different designs for different stores using Magento themes?

There is a difference between a package and a theme, just like there is a difference between a namespace and a module. A package can house multiple different themes. Each package can have a default theme, which can be copied from base/default for example. Then more specific styles and changes can be added to a more customized theme. Any styles or templates missing from this customized theme can be retrieved from the package’s default theme and any styles or templates missing from the package’s default theme can be retrieved from base/default.

**Example:**

Website -> Store ->
- 1. English Store
- 2. French Store

So you could have a package called "batman" and a theme called "default".
This extends from base/default.

You could also have a theme called "returns"

You should add everything from base/default into batman/default.

T
## In which two ways you can register custom theme?

- System -> Configuration -> Design
- System -> Design for seasonal design like Christmas


## What is the difference between package and theme?

Package is a placeholder for multiple themes.

## What happens if the requested file is missed in your theme/package?

It will look in the parent theme (default) and then base/default.
In Magento 1.9 and above it will keep looking in parent themes which could be a lot more than 2.

## Which kind of paths (absolute or relative) does Magento use for templates and layout files?

Uses relative.
For more information on absiolute vs relative paths, see here: https://magento.stackexchange.com/questions/3664/template-absolute-and-relative-paths


## How exactly can Magento define which physical file correspond to certain template/layout to use?

Mage_Core_Model_Design_Package
  ->getLayoutFilename()
  ->getTemplateFilename()

Both methods call getFilename($file, $params = array());


## Which classes and methods need to be rewritten in order to add additional directories to the fallback list?

Mage_Core_Model_Design_Fallback->getFallbackScheme();
Mage_Core_Model_Design_Package->_fallback();
Mage_Core_Model_Design_Package->getFilename();
Mage_Core_Model_Design_Package->getSkinUrl();
