# Blocks

## What are blocks used for in Magento?
To output data

## What is the parent block for all Magento blocks?

Mage_Core_Block_Abstract

## Which class does each block that uses a template extend?

Mage_Core_Block_Template


## In which way does a template block store information about its template file? Does it store an absolute or a relative path to the template?

Absolute.

## What is the role of the Mage_Core_Block_Abstract class?

Provides a collection of useful block-based methods including ‘getChildHtml()’ to get child blocks, ‘toHtml()’ to generate output and other block methods:

- add helper methods
- getChildHtml() to get Child block
- toHtml() to generate output
- \_beforeToHtml() method before its rendered
- \_toHtml() method to allow blocks output HTML
- Cache Blocks

## Can any block in Magento use a template file?
Only those which extend from Mage_Core_Block_Template or Mage_Core_Block_Abstract

## How does the $this variable work inside the template file?
It references the block class

## Is it possible to render a template without a block in Magento?
No.

## Is it possible to have a block without a template in Magento?
Yes in theory you could output raw HTML using the \_toHtml() method.

## Which class is responsible for creating an instance of the block?

Mage_Core_Model_Layout

## Which class is responsible for figuring out which blocks should be created for certain pages?

Mage_Core_Model_Layout_Update has a function 'load()' which loads the appropriate XML layout instructions based on a handle.

## How is the tree of blocks typically rendered?

From the root downwards through the child HTML.
Mage_Core_Model_Layout contains a loop that looks like it might be responsible for outputting all blocks but, in fact, only the root block is generated. During the output of this root block, child blocks are rendered. These children may then generate THEIR own child blocks to render. Call rendering takes places inside of a template file, with a call to '$this->getChildHtml()' method.

## Is it possible to create an instance of the block and render it on the page without using the Magento layout?
From Daniel Navarro :-

Well, you can do something tricky like the following:

    //$block = new Mage_Core_Block_Text()->setText('hello');
    //$this->getResponse()->appendBody($block->toHtml();

But this is something definitelly not recomended…
http://www.danielnavarroymas.com/magento-certification-rendering-blocks-part-3/

## Is it possible to create an instance of the block and add it to the current layout manually?

Yes. Here is an example of generating a block on the fly:
public function indexAction() {
 
    // This loads the Layout (see previous sections)
    $this->loadLayout();
 
    // This creates a block which its class, name and some
    // data (in this case, template file)
    $block = $this->getLayout()->createBlock('module/block')
                               ->setName('blockname')
                               ->setTemplate('template.phtml');
 
    // Append block to the content block
    $this->getLayout()->getBlock('content')->append($block);
 
    // Render all the blocks
    $this->renderLayout();

## How are a block’s children rendered? Once you added a child to the block, can you expect it will be rendered automatically?

No it needs to be called by $this->getChildHtml('name') or getChildChildHtml. Renders a child of a child block, so it is the same as the previous one but it descends two levels in the hierarchy.

## What is a difference in rendering process for different types of blocks?

Mage_Core_Block_Text outputs the text set in the method setText.
Mage_Core_Block_Template outputs the template set in construct or setTemplate method.
Mage_Core_Block_Text_List outputs the child blocks automatically.


      class Mage_Core_Block_Text_List extends Mage_Core_Block_Text
      {
          protected function \_toHtml()
          {
              $this->setText('');
              foreach ($this->getSortedChildren() as $name) {
                  $block = $this->getLayout()->getBlock($name);
                  if (!$block) {
                      Mage::throwException(Mage::helper('core')->\__('Invalid block: %s', $name));
                  }
                  $this->addText($block->toHtml());
              }
              return parent::\_toHtml();
          }
      }


## How can block output be caught using an observer?

    Mage::dispatchEvent('core_block_abstract_to_html_after',array('block' => $this, 'transport' => self::$\_transportObject));
    $html = self::$\_transportObject->getHtml();


## What events do Mage_Core_Block_Abstract and Mage_Core_Block_Template fire?

### 1. Before/After Layout Object is set

    Mage::dispatchEvent('core_block_abstract_prepare_layout_before', array('block' => $this));
    Mage::dispatchEvent('core_block_abstract_prepare_layout_after', array('block' => $this));

### 2. Before Block is Rendered

    Mage::dispatchEvent('core_block_abstract_to_html_before', array('block' => $this));

### 3. After Block is Rendered before returning HTML

    Mage::dispatchEvent('core_block_abstract_to_html_after', array('block' => $this, 'transport' => self::$\_transportObject));

**Note::** $\__transportObject is returned by calling is getHtml() method.


### What is the purpose of each of the following block types:

- **Mage_Core_Block_Template** - To output a template.
- **Mage_Core_Block_Text_List** - To output an array of child blocks
- **Mage_Core_Block_Text** - To output text

### Which block type renders its children automatically?

Mage_Core_Block_Text_List

### Which block type is usually used for a “content” block on Magento pages?

Mage_Core_Block_Text_List

### How can a template’s block instance be accessed inside the template file, and how can other block instances be accessed?

    $this->getChildHtml();

### How can block instances be accessed from the controller?

    $this->getLayout()->getBlock('name');

### How can block instances be accessed inside install scripts or other model class instances?

    Mage::app()->getLayout()->getBlock('name');


### In which ways can block output be disabled in Magento?

    <remove name="name" />

or you could reference the parent block

    <reference name="parent">
      <action method="unsetChild">
          <name>name</name>
      </action>
    </reference>


### Which method can be overridden to control block output?

\_toHtml()
\_afterToHtml()

### In which method are templates rendered?

Mage_Core_Block_Abstract->toHtml();

# Which classes are responsible for figuring out the absolute path for including the template file?

Mage_Core_Block_Template->getTemplateFile();


### Which class performs rendering of the template?

Mage_Core_Block_Template->fetchView();

### How can output buffering be enabled/disabled when templates are rendered?

Mage_Core_Model_Layout::setDirectOuput(true)
