# Design layout, XML schema, and CMS content directives

### How are `<update />`, `<block />`, and `<action />` used in Magento layout?

- Update - updates applied after blocks are being processed. tl;dr: The update handle is basically a "merge this layout with my current layout". (see https://stackoverflow.com/questions/7661107/what-does-the-update-element-do-in-magento-layout-xml)
- Block - The block node is used to add child blocks to a layout file.
- Action - An action node is used to call a method, the desired method is passed into the node via a 'method' parameter


### Which classes and methods determine which nodes from layout XML correspond to certain URLs?

- Mage_Core_Controller_Varien_Front
- Mage_Core_Model_Layout
- Mage_Core_Model_Layout_Update
- Mage_Core_Model_Layout_Package

### How can layout XML files be registered for the frontend and adminhtml areas?

    <frontend>
      <layout>
          <updates>
              <catalog>
                  <file>catalog.xml</file>
              </catalog>
          </updates>
      </layout>

or

    <adminhtml>
      <layout>
          <updates>
              <catalog>
                  <file>catalog.xml</file>
              </catalog>
          </updates>
      </layout>

### How can code be modified or added to Magento pages using the following methods?
− Template customizations

<reference> or <action method=""... or <block ...

- Layout customizations

Through local.xml file or custom xml file.


- Overriding block classes

<block type="my_block/name" name="override" ...

### Registering observers on general block events

**Note:** Important


**Example 1:** Append string to content

app/code/local/Colin/Request/etc/config.xml

    <global>
      <core_block_abstract_prepare_layout_before>
          <observers>
              <colin_request_prepare_layout>
                  <class>colin_request/observer</class>
                  <method>generateBlocks</method>
                  <type>singleton</type>
              </colin_request_prepare_layout>
          </observers>
      </core_block_abstract_prepare_layout_before>
      </events>
    </global>

app/code/local/Colin/Request/Model/Observer.php


    public function generateBlocks($observer)
    {
        $block = $observer->getEvent()->getBlock();
        if ($block->getType() == 'page/html_header') {
            // Do Something
        }

        if ($block->getNameInLayout() === 'content') {
            $text = Mage::app()->getLayout()->createBlock('core/text', 'my_string', array('before', '-'));
            $text->setText('Hello World');
            $block->append($text);
        }

    }

###  How can variables be passed to the block using the following methods?
− In a layout xml file we can include an action node to set data.
  <action method="setData"><name>value</name></action>

− In a controller file you have to follow two simple steps. First, obtain the block instance and then secondly call
the appropriate method to add some form of data. For example:
    
    $block = $this->getLayout()->getBlock('cart'); 
    $block->setMyvariable('myvalue');


− From one block to another is the same as above.
    
− From an arbitrary location (for example, install/upgrade scripts,models)
    A block can be accessed and editted from anywhere with some slightly tweaked code:
       
       $block = Mage::app()->getLayout()->getBlock('cart');
       $block->setMyvariable('myvalue');
    
#### In which circumstances are each of the above methods more or less appropriate than others?  
For a brief outline of this, see here: http://www.danielnavarroymas.com/magento-certification-explain-how-variables-can-be-passed-to-block-instances-via-layout-xml/

### Describe various ways to add and customize JavaScript to specific request scopes:

**addItem**

<reference name="head">
    <action method="addItem">
      <type>skin_js</type>
      <name>js/script.js</name>
    </action>
</reference>

**addJs** (for libraries under js directory not skin)

<reference name="head">
    <action method="addJs">
      <name>library/script.js</name>
    </action>
</reference>

**addJsIe** (for libraries under js directory not skin)

<reference name="head">
    <action method="assJsIe">
      <name>library/ie.js</name>
    </action>
</reference>


### Which block is responsible for rendering JavaScript in Magento?

Mage_Page_Block_Html_Head

### Which modes of including JavaScript does Magento support?

JavaScript can be added to a page using XML layout instructions, like in the following example:

    <reference name="head">
        <action method="addJs"><script>folder/file.js</script></action>
    </reference>

In PHP, JavaScript can be added dynamically using the 'addItem' method, though addJs and addJsIe methods also exist and achieve the same outcome. Here is an example.

    Mage::app()->getLayout()->getBlock('head')->addItem('js', 'folder/file.js');

### Which classes and files should be checked if a link to a custom JavaScript file isn’t being rendered on a page?

- The XML file that is adding the js file
- skin/js and js directories to see if the file exists
- Mage_Page_Block_Html_Head class, getCssJsHtml() function can be checked
